So, I've been running businesses for 15
years and I've hit this wall multiple
times. It's somewhere around seven,
eight, nine, 10 million in revenue where
suddenly your biggest problem, it's not
a lack of ideas. It's a issue with you.
You're the bottleneck. And so, I've got
this buddy named Ryan Dice. He's got
this amazing quote. He says, "The more
valuable you are, the less valuable the
company is." And I read that quote in
one of his books a while ago, and it
kind of changed my game on how I thought
about business. And so I decided to have
Ryan come on and talk about this simple
but very effective framework he has for
running companies. It's changed my life
and maybe it could change yours. But on
this podcast, he shared everything. So
he shared his whiteboard, his
spreadsheets, his flowcharts with his
employees. It's basically like a
30-minute MBA, which is pretty insane
and very valuable. So check it out. Let
me know what you think in the comments.
All right, let's get into it.
You have two things that I like. One is
you have this quote which is the more
valuable you are at your company the
less valuable your company. I think this
is like for every entrepreneur you will
hit this point especially when you want
to sell where it felt really good to be
the man to be the one creating all the
value to taking all the shots and having
your name everywhere and your face
everywhere and your your fingerprints
all over the business. It does feel good
from an ego perspective. It does feel
good to have control, but it sucks if
you ever want to go on vacation or sell
your business because the more valuable
you are to the business, the less
valuable the business is.
>> Yeah. You got to you got to decide. Do
you want to be down on the court hitting
the last minute, you know, jump shot to
win the game or do you want to be up in
the owner's box? Um that that is the
choice that that you make. And so you're
either going to be the most valuable
player or you're going to own the team.
Most entrepreneurs would much rather be
valuable. And they would rather do the
things that enable them to get started
than do the things that are going to
enable them to actually achieve the
things that they say they want, but
really they kind of like being
important. They kind of like being
valuable. And I think that's you've got
to decide what do you actually want. And
the nice thing is it's your business, so
you get to decide.
>> Yeah. But a lot of times the the problem
is impulse control. Like uh so like
>> he says as he cuts you off. [laughter]
>> Uh it's it's impulse control. I think
like I can say that I want something and
I do truly want it but 20 years of
previous behaviors have to be broken and
it's incredibly challenging to actually
do that. And I think that like evolving
as a person is we actually just did an
episode on the other day is way more
challenging than um than a lot of people
think. I like this graphic you had here
of the the before and after if you know
I think the messy sort of entrepreneur
which is you know I've been guilty a lot
of these things you're working 80 hours
a week you're in the weeds if you ask
who owns this the answer is me me for
each each area the whole team is asking
you hey got a minute to talk about X you
know 200 times a day you're missing
soccer games you can't sell the business
because it's all it's too dependent on
you and the business owns you rather
than you owning the business and then
you have sort of the uh the ideal sort
of uh outcome here at end, which is, you
know, it's an hour a week for you. Team
executes without you, the team optimizes
without you, the team decides without
you, you can take a 30-day vacation, you
break revenue records while you're gone,
and you're exit ready if you want to,
right? Like as an ideal uh end state.
And this is for an entrepreneur who
wants to exit, you know, wants to build
what is sort of insultingly called a
lifestyle business, but is I think the
the main type of business I'm interested
in. I use business to have a good
lifestyle. Um, so yes, that that's kind
of what I want. So what's the process?
How do you do that that transformation?
How do you go from player to the owner's
box? Fran,
>> the way that you begin to implement it
is you have to establish defaults. You
have to establish certain default
constraints. I'm going to leave at 5:30
every day. Like I'm just I'm going to do
that and I'm not going to show up until
9 and what do you know? Magically I got
my work done in that block of time
because I did. Um and so just the
prioritization of that is going to do
it. I mean that I think that's the first
thing that is then going to to force you
to at least stack rank your priorities
cuz you can't do everything cuz yeah,
you're right. We got a million different
ideas, but what are the ones that we're
going to do first? I like to say like
our ideas are like chocolate cake, not
cotton candy. You can only eat so much
chocolate cake. It's delicious, but you
can only eat so much of it. So, what are
those what are those things that that
you're going to do to begin to um to
stack rank those? And it does come down
to again just getting really good at
constraint identification. We can do
everything like we there there's all
this stuff that we could potentially do
as entrepreneurs. We are trained and
adept at identifying problems. We see
them everywhere. We will never not see
them, but we we certainly can't fix them
all at once. So, what's the one we're
going to do next? And that's the only
question I'm ever asking. What is my
right next thing? What is the thing that
I'm going to do next? And every problem
in business is going to come down to one
of two things. Is it a supply constraint
or a demand constraint? Demand
constraints, I just need more leads and
sales. Supply constraint, please don't
give me more leads in sales. I can't
fulfill the ones that I got. And so once
I've identified that category, now I
just need to say, okay, how do we get
this done? And so if it's not going to
be me that does it,
who do I need to bring in to do it? And
ultimately what it's going to look like
is bringing somebody in who is better
than me at one aspect of this. So I'm
not going to find somebody who's better
than me at everything, but I can almost
certainly find multiple people who are
better than me at one aspect of that.
And that's what assembling a leadership
team looks like. What you have to first
do is you have to map and visualize what
are the core value drivers of the
business. And every business does three
things. You make stuff, you sell stuff,
and you fulfill stuff. And so if you
will create a visual map of how that
happens. And so we do this with visual
process mapping like we literally will
get go to a whiteboard and get sticky
notes and we'll say okay h how do we get
customers? Let's sticky note this out in
flowchart form. And you're basically
creating like assembly lines that
connect. Is that the right way to think
about this? Like it's literally like a
pipeline. Something comes in at the
start, then then what happens to it,
then it gets handed off over here, then
it gets handed off over here. Right.
That's kind of what you're doing.
>> Exactly. So this is this is an example
of one that we would do just in sticky
note version. But like this is an
example of the growth engine. So where
we would start is, you know, how do we
generate initial awareness? So like
let's say for this business they run
Facebook and Instagram ads, they run
Google ads and they're doing you know
reals and stories.
>> Yeah.
>> So we're going to start here and then
we're going to say okay cool. Then what
happens? And so for this particular
business they're driving traffic to an
email challenge. So they're going to
have people sign up for that challenge
page and then all you're doing is just
saying then what happens?
>> Well, do they register? If not, then
we're going to retarget. If yes, we're
going to deliver it. And all you do in
this process, you just keep saying,
"Okay, then what? Then what? Then what?"
And if you just will map the process,
and I didn't invent this. This is called
business process mapping. But I if if
you will just say where does it start,
where does it end? And you will create a
business process map for everything that
you do as a company.
and and specifically if you'll do it for
how you get customers
once you what you do with them once you
have them and how you know you could
also do it for your manufacturing
process your product creation process um
then what you've done is you visualize
the core value creation aspect of your
uh business have you ever done this Sean
>> yeah but um the question is what are you
doing it for so you know there's a
couple different ways you can look at
that one is you look at it and you
identify where's the constraint. Uh you
know the problem is this part's working
well like you know what we would do is
we would overlay some numbers. We would
say great so how many how much are we
spending on those Facebook ads? How many
clicks are those driving? So I would
have little numbers written on the
arrows basically and then we would kind
of circle the one like where's the leak
in our bucket. Um you know this is the
this is where we feel weak. You know uh
we got a lot of demand but um maybe you
know we're breaking in terms of how many
we can fulfill. there's a long wait
list, right? Or um they're not coming
back. Why aren't they coming back? And
you try to identify the constraint. So,
is that why you do the business process
map or is there is that the first thing
you do with there? What's the what are
the different things you do once you
create the map?
>> So, this is kind of a a digital example
of the growth engine I just showed you.
>> And this would be like their fulfillment
engine. So what I would do is we would
take this growth engine
>> and the one of the first things that we
would do is we would say okay which of
these can we really not afford to screw
up. So one of the the biggest mistakes
that companies make when they're trying
to to systemize is they try to document
everything. Don't do that. Just document
the ones that are really really really
important. The second thing that we do
is this is how we figure out um who we
need to hire. So, we create this thing
called a high output team canvas. And
so, every single one of the sticky
notes, every single step or stage on
here, we're going to say, okay, this one
right here, Facebook and Instagram ads,
who is uniquely responsible for this
one. And then we will create this
canvas. So, I'll go down to the
marketing team and I'll say, okay,
you've got, you know, John here. John is
gonna, you know, collaborate with
agencies to, you know, establish those
those budgets, but ultimately it's going
to be our agency that's going to manage
and optimize these. So, every single
sticky note, every single box is going
to have corresponding what we would call
critical accountability bullets. And
this is how we begin to assign roles and
responsibilities.
So, that's that's the the second thing
that we do with this. And it becomes
interesting because as you go through
these
instead of going to people and saying
okay what does you know what does Betty
do? You know what does what does Lloyd
do? What does Carly do? You start with
your value creation processes and you
you assign stuff to the people and when
you're done you realize who's got all
the things and who's got like none of
the things. And so you can see on your
team who's overburdened with work that
actually matters and who is
underbururden with work that actually
matters. But to the point that that you
made, this is how we create our
scorecards. So for our scorecards,
every single one of the different
squares, every single sticky note, if
you will, is going to have one or near
corresponding metrics on the uh on the
scorecard. And so this is how we know
that we're actually tracking the metrics
that matter. And so when you look at
your score at our scorecards, if you
work top to bottom, that's going to
visualize what we're seeing as we work
across here.
All right, check this out. So Ryan is
giving away his entire operating system.
I'm talking about the actual spreadsheet
he uses to run his companies. Everything
from sprint road maps and workflows to
planning tools, the whole thing. the
same system we're talking about in this
episode. You can get it right now. Scan
the QR code or click the link in the
description. Now, let's get back to the
show. When I see things like this, it's
sort of like reading the book How to Win
Friends and Influence People where
you're like saying stuff and I'm like,
oh yeah, that's obvious. That makes
sense. And yet, I don't do it. And I'm
like, I would love to do this. I should
do this. What m what mistakes am I
likely to make when I see this stuff?
Because to me as someone, you know, what
do they say? Like uh like uh it's easy
to sell like it's easy to sell water to
like a guy in hell. Like to me, this is
like where I am now where it's like,
"Yeah, I need this." And so I see
there's like five or 10 of these types
of frameworks and I'm like, "I want all
of them. I need all of them."
>> So after this, Sam's going to go run off
and do it. What's the first place he's
going to stub his toe?
>> Yeah. Where am I going to screw this up?
Let's first kind of talk about like the
hiring com component because that is one
of the things that I see entrepreneurs
as they're scaling screw up and they
they tip they make one of two really big
mistakes. Um the first is they hire
helpers
or they want to try to hire somebody
just like them. And like it's these two
opposite ends. It's like so they they
either try to hire a bunch of helpers to
just do the stuff that that they don't
want to do. Um or they're like ah if if
only I could hire somebody just like me.
if I could hire like a quote unquote
integrator. That is one of the biggest
lies ever perpetrated on the
entrepreneurial community is this
concept of I as the visionary snowflake
can just hire this like one magical
integrator who'll just do all the crap
that I don't want to do. It just does
not freaking work. It makes for a very
good book. It just doesn't work ever in
practice. So, it's not about you
changing necessarily. What it's about
you doing is getting really good at
identifying what is the single biggest
constraint right now in my business
right what is that right now in my
business today for us to grow to the
next level and it's never ideas
and this is the thing as as
entrepreneurs as business owners what we
do in the beginning what what gets us
going is I got an idea and and so like
that's the freaking hammer that that
that we take to every single nail is I
got a new idea. And the last thing at
some point that your business needs is
another new idea. It doesn't need
another new thing to implement. What it
needs to figure out is what is the thing
that is holding us back from the level,
you know, of growth that you need. So
the the first shift that needs to happen
is shifting from I got an idea to
shifting from cons to constraint
identification.
Once you have shifted from idea
generation to constraint identification
then the answer becomes okay what's the
best way to solve for this constraint
and it's almost always system and people
related but it's almost never hire a
bunch of helpers because when you hire
helpers what you actually did is you
gave yourself a new job called
management which is even harder or let
me hire somebody just like me because
somebody just like you done doesn't work
want to work for you what you need to
typically do is realize ize that that
constraint is solved by a functional
leader.
And so what you need to get good at is
hiring very very very good and talented
functional leaders. So head of sales,
head of marketing, head of product. And
this is the thing that most
entrepreneurs aren't as good at as
they're scaling. They're good at hiring
a bunch of little helpers. They think
they're good at hiring a quote unquote
COO, although nobody actually knows what
that is. If you can get really good at
hiring a functional leader and building
a team of those, now team leadership
becomes a lot easier when you have
really when you have three or four
actually talented skilled people working
for you. They have massive capacity
because they'll build the teams under
them to execute all your ideas.
>> Sean, two years ago, you're like, I just
hired this I think I think you said I
just hired this VP of marketing or CM I
forget exactly. It was a marketing
position. I forget the title. And you're
like, what was it? Was it a CMO? and you
were like, "Why didn't I do this
sooner?" And I remember thinking, "Oh
man, you found a winner." Like that's
like the the highest leverage thing that
we can do is just like find winners and
it's so challenging. But I remember you
like talked about finding this this this
person and your like frame was broken.
>> Yeah. There's a new test for is this
person a good hire or not? uh which is
you basically you switch from uh I I
wish this would happen or I hope this
would happen or I want this to happen to
basically fear that uh will this person
leave because oh my god this person is
so good and they are like they're so
transformative to the business and I
just don't have to worry about that and
that if they ever left I would have to
worry about that area of the business
again. Uh I think we had John Morgan on
last last week and he has this phrase
called send and delete people. He's
like, "There's people in your company
that you could just send them the email,
you could forward them the email, and
then you can delete the email cuz you
know it's going to get handled." And um
you know, Brian, this thing you just
said is is so true. I actually was
talking about this last week about
helpers. I was like talking to somebody
on my team. I was like, "Are you going
to be a helper? Like so far this has
worked because I needed you as my
helper, but now I'm asking you to drive,
but you still are acting like a helper
and like but you want to be a driver and
we need a driver. So like it's time to
be a driver." Now whether that person
can can make that adjustment or not, I
think is is is always just about that
person and their their own kind of goals
and self-improvement and
self-development, their their
self-image. But uh it's so true that
it's very very tempting to hire other
just kind of entrepreneurial people like
me. Great. Now I got another sort of
like shiny object syndrome idea guy in
the room that doesn't help. Or I got a
helper who as long as I'm directing
everything, they help me get stuff done.
But that means I always have to keep
keep my eye on that area because I'm the
one coming up with the plan. and I'm the
one driving the execution and they're
just, you know, there to help. So, I've
I've definitely felt this problem
firsthand.
>> The the biggest mistake that people make
when they when they map their their
business process maps is they will map
what they wish were true instead of
mapping what actually is. And and so you
have to map what actually is happening
today, not like, well, what we should be
doing is this. Like that's generally
unhelpful. You need to see all of those
as points of future optimization because
we've got to get a picture of what it is
today because that's what's going to
inform what are all of the people
actually doing or what should they be
doing? Um what are the metrics that that
we do need to track? The other kind of
thing that you want to make sure that
you're doing is that you are starting
from the audit of those value engines.
So you you you don't want to just say
I'm going to build out my scorecard cuz
that looks cool. Okay, but what are the
metrics that you're picking? Because if
the metrics don't that that you're
tracking, if they don't all link back to
a step or stage, you know, on one of
those business process maps, then you
could very well be tracking something
that doesn't matter. I'll give you an
example. When we rolled out our
scorecards to our team, we had somebody
on at at our company who was like, "Hey,
we don't currently have any metrics for
this was at at uh at digital marketer,
one of our companies. We don't we don't
currently have any metrics for our email
newsletter.
Why don't we have that?" I was like,
"Well,
where where show me where the show me
where the newsletter feeds into
anything." Like, "Oh, well, you know,
it's it's good for awareness and
engagement of the list." I'm like,
"Okay, but how does it drive into
anything?" And the answer was it didn't
because the newsletter didn't show up as
a sticky note on any of our growth
engine. Because at no point in the
newsletter did we ever link off to
anything that was meaningful. It never
showed up. It never wound up as a sticky
note on anything. like that's that's why
it never showed up on a on one of our
you know growth engines which is why it
never showed up on the scorecard. We're
not tracking the metrics. So I had to
say to the person like look if you can
show us where this actually has an
impact on one of our uh you know on on
our growth engine then then you'll get
some metrics to track and until then you
won't and if you don't then we're going
to stop doing it completely. there's so
many orphaned activities that companies
are doing that it's because you're doing
things that don't have a a a sticky note
that's represented anywhere. And so
that's the other kind of mistake I'd say
that people are making.
>> I think I read somewhere that someone
said like I think it was Jason Lumpin.
He was like if you get to a 10 million
in revenue, it's you 100% your business
can 100% get to 100 million in revenue.
Do you think that what stops people from
growing from 10 to 100 million or
whatever this arbitrary um like it's
kind of working to it's a huge home run
is like being better operators like
being systemized and things like this.
>> Yeah, it's almost always systems at the
at the end of the day. I think it
happens earlier like really the swamp of
scale happens at kind of four to six
million. That's no man's land. That's
when you probably need three people that
you absolutely can't possibly afford,
right? There's like three, you know, VP
level kind of roles that that you can't
afford yet, but if you could get them,
they would take you up to 20 million. At
that point, you would have the the
margin, you would have the cash flow to
be able to get the rest of the people to
then be able to scale to the next level.
And the only way that you can bridge
that gap is through systems. You're not
going to be able to bridge it through
through just brute force through just
chewing rocks. Like that's what's going
to get you from a million to two million
like you said maybe for for really you
know motivated people up to 7 8 10 but
it is not going to get you beyond that.
You're going to have to get really
really really talented people and really
talented people are expensive and the
only way you're going to be able to
create that margin is through systems.
Also really talented people want to work
for good companies. One of my like least
favorite pieces of advice is like, "Oh,
just go hire talented people." That's
like saying to like your sad, lonely,
pathetic friend, just like, "Oh, just
only date tens."
[laughter] That's not helpful. You have
to become the kind of person that a 10
would want to date.
And it's the same if you want to attract
talent at as a business. You have to
become the kind of business that a
players want to come and work for. It's
why I say like my goal is not to hire
like rockstars and a players. My my my
goal is to build a company that doesn't
require them because I know that that's
the kind of company that rockstars and a
players want to come and work for. So
that happens through better systems. If
you can put those in place, then great
people want to come and work there. It's
it's why you know big companies get even
bigger. Is the company of um selling
this like license of of scalable of the
scalability company is that going to be
the best business that you've ever
founded? I mean, is it it's sort of
going to be like EOS? I heard EOS, which
is like, you know, an operational
framework. I heard that company sold for
like I think $90 million.
>> Yeah, it won't be from that perspective
because we we talked about doing the
licensed practitioner model with it. We
don't want to. So, our model is when
when we work with clients, we do it all
internally. And so, we're somewhat
limited in terms of what we can do. But
that's because again for us this is us
getting paid to do due diligence because
we want to basically have access to the
deal flow. And so if we were to license
our model to other kind of coaches and
consultants like EOS did, it would be a
simpler business. It would arguably be
more scalable, but we would lose out on
all the deal flow. And so we talked
about it, but we don't do it. So on um
on one hand I mean scalable this year is
going to do just right at about $10
million in revenue which is good and
it's really good healthy margins but
what we generate from the deal flow is
way better than that. There's there's
one deal that we're going to have that
we got from it that it won't happen this
year but it should be this next year.
$300 million company. It's not we're not
going to get 20% of it. We it'll be a
much smaller percentage of that with a
baseline. But if this business winds up
going public in a couple of years, let's
just say that's that's a couple EOS's
for me.
>> Dude, this is why you're fascinating to
me when you I think that when you have
like I think Sean uses this phrase
generative. Uh I use the phrase
prolific. You've been like doing stuff
for like 30 or 20 years now.
>> Yeah. No, and look, a lot of it's just
being old. uh having done having been
around for you know [clears throat]
for 20 plus for 20 plus years and being
and being in the being in the game for a
long time and that's why I tell people
like so much of this is is is is
patience and and just allowing
you know just getting in the stuff and
doing it. I mean again the first thing
that I sold online was an ebook on how
to make your own baby food for $14.
So, your first thing does not have to
be, I went out there, I had an idea, I
flew out to San Francisco, I I got, you
know, I was in the YC batch and, you
know, next thing you know, I'm a
billionaire. Like, that's not how it it
has to be. It's not how it is for most
people. It can start pretty humbly.
>> When did you first feel rich?
>> I still don't feel very rich.
>> Why not?
>> Part of it's because we still live
relatively below our means. I've got
four kids and I I never wanted to live
in kind of a place where,
you know, they they weren't around, I
guess, normal kids, if that makes sense.
I've seen some of my other friends who
they they moved when they hit it big,
they moved to like very ritzy areas and
and there were no kids there for their
kids to play with. And so, my wife and I
talked about that like we just sort of
stayed in the same place that we were in
the whole time and so I I I haven't
really expanded my lifestyle that much.
>> Are you still chasing money? Yeah, I
think the the main reason though is is I
still live in a the perpetual fear that
it's all going to go away.
>> I appreciate the honesty. I I feel like
most people aren't uh honest with
themselves or others about about that.
You know, the same just ask, are you
chasing money? I think most people would
uh you know, reflexively deny that. No,
I I just love what I do, blah blah blah.
And then it's like, but everything you
do is about making money, and if there
was no money, you wouldn't do it. You
know what I mean? like um and so I
appreciate the uh the
>> I am completely coin operated. I I'm in
this for the money. Um I I wish you know
and and I and I acknowledge the
brokenness of it too by the way. Like I
I wish I don't know that that there is
like some some number and it's it's it's
also one of those things like I don't
even know how much I have. It's it's I
don't look at it because it's not about
like stacking those kind of things. And
it's the same even with the businesses.
Like I can tell you more about the
businesses we have that are broken than
I can the ones that are working well,
you know, like it's for whatever reason
my focus is always on the things that
that aren't quite right than on the
things that that are. You're you're
interesting to me because you come off
like a fairly conservative person,
meaning like um uh super well operated,
and yet there's this other side of you
that comes off like a gunslinger, like
uh screw it, put it all in red, let's do
it.
>> You look like a guy who I'll see at
church every weekend, but also has a
bookie who calls him and it's like,
whoa, okay, great. I like it. [laughter]
>> Very close to home, Sean. Thank you. Um
all right, that's it. That's a five.